Assuming the robot knows where it has to go, it would essentially have to compare the numbers on the buttons to the floor number it has programmed. 

If it is going to lucky floor #13, for example, the robot would have to identify through some visual imaging, which numbers are represented on the buttons. 

if button_1 == 13, then push. If not, move on.

To do that, we would have to initialize a counter to move on to the next number, which operation, if I remember correctly, is +=. 

So, if it was determined the button for floor 1 does not equal 13 (which is does not), then one would be added to the counter and the robot would check to see if the botton for floor 2 equals 13. It does not, so it moves on, and so on until it reaches button 13. 

When the robot incrementally comes to the button that equals 13, the conditions are met to push the button, and off to floor 13 it goes. 



My "day job" is barteding in midtown NYC, so this is pretty straight forward. I recieve user input and produce a product, sometimes hundreds of time per day. In fact, my job could quite easily be transferred to a robot now that I think about it. 

First, I would make all bottles, glassware and necessary equipment identifiable to the robot. I would have to program the robot to distinguish between say, vodka and rum, or club soda nad sprite. 

I would request input from the user, ie, "What would you like to drink?"

Robo-tender would run through his database of drinks, until the input matched an existing formula. Ex, if guest_drink == "vodka" && "soda"... well I guess I don't know the code for pick up and pour but I assume it can be done.

If the user was a wiseguy and responded with he'd like a new Ferarri, robot would invoke the catch-all elsif and make threatening beeps and shakes until the unruly guest ran in terror.

Robo-tender would return to the beginning of the program, and continue to run the cycle of input and output until a pre-determined "last call" is reached, hopefully around 10pm so he can go home and make sure his DBC work can be successfully completed and submitted by 10am Monday ;)